---
layout: post
title: "Git Introduction"
description: "An introduction to the Git SCM tool and Github service."
tagline: "Source control management tool"
category: git
tags: [learning, intro, git, github]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

This introduction will go over what Git and Github are and why we as a team chose to use them.
Further articles on Git and Github will go over _how_ to use these tools.

## Git Overview


### What are Git and Github?

Directly from the [git-scm](www.git-scm.com) website...

> Git is a free and open source distributed version control system designed to handle everything from small to very large projects with speed and efficiency.
> 
> Git is easy to learn and has a tiny footprint with lightning fast performance.
> It outclasses SCM tools like Subversion, CVS, Perforce, and ClearCase with features like cheap local branching, convenient staging areas, and multiple work-flows.

In a nutshell, Git is an **SCM tool** that the San Diego City Robotics software team adopted to make collaboration easy and accessible.
Git was created by Linus Torvalds, attributed creator of the Linux kernel, and is used by teams and companies across the entire tech industry to manage their software.

### SCM?

SCM (software configuration management) is the task of tracking and controlling changes in the lifetime of a software project, and Git is an SCM tool.
It is a principle with many subsystems, one being a version control system.

Also known as "revision control" or "source control", a version control system aims to manage changes made to components of a project; in the case of a software project, changes in the source code.
Changes in a project typically include new files, file deletions and changes within files.
Such changes without a version control system can make collaborative projects extremely messy.
Git and other systems like it make collaboration much easier by tracking these changes on a server.
This way when one team-member changes a file, every team-member sees what changed and every team-member has access to those changes.
It does this by keeping a history of "snapshots", i.e. statuses of all the files in the project at a specific point in time.

